define robotics.
what are the different types of industrial robot. explain any two with a neat sketch.
considering automotive, service, healthcare and space technology, explain how robotics influence them.
what are he basic components of robot and explain. provide an analogy of robotic systems with human body.
explain the following : i) forward kinematics; ii) inverse kinematics: iii) static analysis of robots; iv) dynamic analysis of robots;
write a brief note on evolution of programming language for robotics.
Classify sensor based on extrioceptive and proprioceptive sensors used in robots. take on sensor from each and explain its working principle with a neat sketch.
Identify the application of robotics in: i) disaster management; ii) minimg industry.
Classify different actuators used in robotics and explain.

module 2
Briefly explain the following: i) Kinematics; ii) Links; iii) Kinematic Joint; iv) degree of freedom; v) dynamics.
list different types of joints and explain each with a neat sketch.
list and explain different types of links with a neat sketch.
What is homogenous transformation matrix? and Obtain an equation for homogenous transformation matrix.
one problem on : i) pure rotation; ii) pure translation; iii) combination of rotation and translation.
What ois D-H parameters? and explain it through equations.
obtain forward and inverse kinematics for a 2-d and 3-d manipulator using geometric method.
obtain forward kinematics for 2-d manipulator using D-H parameters.
Obtain forward kinematics for 3-link serial  manipulator using D-H parameters.
Obtain an equation for jacobian matrix in the context of robotics.
write a brief note on singularities and redundencies.

module 3
define control systems. Compare and contrast open loop and closed control systems.
Consider a traffic light operation in a signal. represent the same as open loop and closed loop control system with neat pictorial representation.
A drone initially on ground, should hover at a height of 100m. Explain how it is achieved using PID controllers.
Explain differnt control stratergies using different conbinations of p,i,D controllers.
LIst and explain path planning environments.
Write a brief note on: i) adaptive control; ii) robost control; iii) model predictive control.
IN the era of AI, explain how digital control implementation is achieved in robotics.
List and explain various trajectory generation techniques.
